Good morning.
Thanks for attending this
session this morning,
session 634, Configuring and Deploying
Oracle 10g on Mac OS X.
We're very excited about this session.
I think those of you who were here
last year heard the announcement
that it would be coming,
the product actually released
in December of this last year.
And both companies are very excited
by the uptake in the development
and deployment of Oracle 10g on
Mac OS X over the last couple of months.
And we're here today,
we've got a couple of folks from
Apple and Oracle to come up and
talk to you a little bit about
deploying and things that you should
know about as you go through your
configuration and hopefully help you
along in your development as well.
I'd like to take a quick survey of
those in the audience who are ISVs who
are looking at using Oracle 10g as part
of the database for their development.
Okay, great.
And how about in-house or consulting?
In-house developers or consulting,
so looking to use it in your
enterprise or in your business?
Fantastic, great.
Well, I think today's messaging
is really going to help.
We have Sergio Leunissen from Oracle here
to talk about Oracle database and,
you know, big picture how it runs,
the architecture behind it,
a little bit about the
different configurations.
And then followed up,
Paul Lambert from Apple will actually
be talking about specifically how to
optimize and configure for Mac OS X.
And then Sergio will actually
come up and give a 10-15
minute demonstration on HTMLDB,
which we're really excited about.
And then we'll wrap up with a
Q&A session because I'm sure
there's a few questions out there.
I would also like to mention
following this session,
on the second floor in the
third alcove downstairs across
from the Enterprise IT Lab,
we'll be having a special session
called 10g RAC on Mac OS X.
So if you can attend that,
that would be great.
We actually have one of our partners
that's going to be putting on that.
It's sort of an informal discussion,
but we'd love to have you attend and
learn a little bit more about deploying
Apple in a cluster configuration
and taking advantage of real
application clustering from Oracle.
So to start off,
we'd like to run a customer
testimonial video for you.
Around the world,
Holland has long been known
as the country of flowers,
and it's easy to see why.
An assortment of these colorful
creations blanket the region's landscape,
providing a wonderful experience.
providing a rich backdrop for Dutch life.
At this flower auction,
more than 19 million flowers
change hands every day,
supplied by 6,000 growers and
bought by 1,100 wholesalers.
One of the leaders behind
the flower boom is Florensis.
Florensis' position is in
the top three of the world,
you could say, because that's our aim,
to be the best worldwide.
The company cultivates more than
650 million plants on a yearly basis
on more than 220,000 acres of land.
But the rapid growth in
Florencys greenhouse operations
has also created challenges.
The amount of data was increasing,
you can say, day by day.
Before choosing Oracle,
the company had difficulty managing
the data for its blooming business.
You need to have a system where all
the data was kept in on a reliable way,
because the system is supporting
every part of the process.
To make its business
run more efficiently,
Florencys teamed up with Oracle and
Dutch IT company Matadex.
Working together,
they've created a custom
solution to support the entire
Florencys logistical process,
from order entry to client delivery.
The foundation of the system
is the Oracle 10g system.
The system is Oracle Database 10g,
an Apple's Mac OS X platform.
The solution also supports the use
of robotic instruments that control
and monitor operations on the ground.
This robotical system is connected
to the Oracle database and is fully
supported by the Oracle database.
So data which are coming out of the
robotical system are going into the
intra system on a real time basis.
Today, Florencia's business is
blossoming like never before,
thanks to Oracle Database 10g.
By combining technology and
new innovations in flower R&D,
Oracle and Florencia are planting
the seeds for continued success.
Our core business is
not maintaining systems,
our core business is
growing plants and seeds.
That's why we've chosen for Apple and for
the same reason we've chosen for Oracle.
Great, with that I'd like to
bring up Sergio Leunissen
to begin our presentation.
Sergio.
Thanks Matt.
Good morning.
You know, I actually grew up,
I was telling Matt,
I grew up about 12 minutes
away from that auction house.
That's a place called Alsmere.
About 70% of the flowers in
the world that are traded in
the world go through there.
That was about 10 years ago.
Great,
so I'm excited to be here to talk about
how Oracle and Apple have been working
together to create a great platform
for running your enterprise data.
It's a very affordable, cost-effective,
flexible, easy-to-manage platform.
So what are we going to cover today?
Well, I want to talk about the objectives
behind creating Oracle Database 10g.
What were some of the key focus areas?
[Transcript missing]
So my name is Sergio Leunissen.
I've been with Oracle for 10 years.
Actually, June 12th, it'll be 10 years.
I've been working with the
Oracle database since version 7.1.6,
and I've been the proud owner of a
Mac for about three years at home.
So what were the objectives
behind Oracle Database 10g?
What were we trying to
do for our customers?
Well, the first thing we wanted to do
was to enable grid computing.
And grid computing allows our
customers to more efficiently
use their hardware resources,
their servers, their storage,
configure them in an IT infrastructure
such that it's used more efficiently.
I'll talk more about that later.
The next thing we wanted to do is
deliver the highest quality of service.
What does that mean?
Well, it means you deliver systems
that are always up and running.
That perform well,
that scale well to handle a lot of users,
and they're also secure.
They protect your data,
they make sure no one can bring it down.
We wanted to do this while reducing
the cost and complexity of managing
all this IT infrastructure.
Finally, Oracle has always been known to
provide the most comprehensive
integrated database available,
meaning that you can use it for
your transaction processing,
data warehousing, business intelligence,
and even special data types such as
spatial and unstructured text data,
for example.
So we did this, we delivered database
10g sometime last year,
and this is what industry
experts are saying.
They're saying that Oracle database
10g is simply the most sophisticated
database available today on the market,
and we're proud of that.
But what we're even more
proud of is that we've reached
new levels of manageability,
such that database 10g is no longer
just for Fortune 500 companies.
Small shops,
mid-sized enterprises stand to gain
from using database 10g as well.
[Transcript missing]
So let's talk about grid computing.
Grid computing is the idea
that you pool your resources,
that is your processing power,
and your storage such that it can be
shared and allocated dynamically across
all the applications that need to use it.
If you look at this picture
over here on the left side,
that is your left side, you see that,
you see separate applications,
each running on their own servers,
on their own storage.
Each of them are configured
and sized to handle peak load.
What does that mean?
That means that at any point in time,
one of those systems,
server and storage together,
could be taxed,
could be running at capacity,
while another one,
another system is not doing anything,
right?
So you're not efficiently
using your hardware resources.
With grid computing,
what you do is you standardize
on high performance,
low cost hardware such as Apple XServe,
low cost storage such
as Apple XServe RAID,
and you pool them together,
you consolidate them such
that they can be used.
They're resources,
the capacity can be shared
across applications.
The reason you use these high density,
high performance nodes such as
Apple XServe is that you can start small
and you can scale up as you need more.
So it's a very modular approach.
So our next objective was to
provide high quality of service.
One of the aspects of quality of service
is that you want to reduce downtime.
Now downtime can be caused
because there's data corruption,
right, maybe a disk fails.
You could have just data
corruption because someone made
the wrong update on your data.
Or you could have an all-out calamity,
a disaster at your data center, right?
So what Oracle has done is we've
introduced technologies with database 10g
To make it very easy and quick to
recover from all of these problems,
right?
To make sure you're up and
running as soon as possible.
For example, with ASM,
ASM is Automatic Storage Management.
It's a technology that allows you to,
that automatically for you mirrors your
data across what's called failure groups.
A failure group being
a collection of disks,
disks that share,
that might fail together because
they share a network connection
or they share a disk controller,
right?
It automatically mirrors that for you.
It also allows you to do
something called flash recovery,
which means you're backing up,
you're putting all your recovery
related files on low cost storage,
such as Apple X, Apple X Server RAID,
to make sure you can
quickly recover from that.
Another source of downtime
could be a human error.
Someone could drop a table or
maybe delete some rows that
shouldn't have been deleted.
I've never done it myself,
but I've heard this happens.
With Flashback, Flashback is a technology
that allows you to,
well, flashback,
that is rewind the database to a point
in time where a table that was dropped,
you know, exists again.
It's very, Oracle's the only database
company that has that technology.
And finally,
Data Guard is a technology that allows
you to keep a running copy of the
database at a remote site so you can
failover should something happen.
Another aspect of quality of service
is making sure that your database
and the data in it is secure.
Oracle provides several technologies
to keep your database secure.
First, Oracle has been committed
to security for a long time.
In the last decade,
we have passed 17 independent
certifications for security,
called Common Criteria Certification.
We're the only database company
in the industry that has that.
So we're serious about security.
What we've done in 10g,
we've introduced technologies such as,
that provide low level security.
Technology is called
fine-grained access control.
Now traditional databases,
what they do is they provide
access control at the object level.
So someone may or may not
be able to see a table,
say with employee names and salaries.
What we do is we make that access
control much more fine grained,
allowing you to secure or
provide access control at the
data item or the row level.
So I can see some of the
rows in the employees table,
but not all of them.
And this is enforced
at the database level,
regardless of how you come in,
what application you come in from.
We can even provide row level
access control based on the
column you're selecting.
So I don't know,
some of you here probably know SQL.
If you type select * from employees,
or say you select last name,
you can see that the rows
are set up in the database.
So you can see that the rows
So I can see some of the
rows in the employees table,
but not all of them.
And this is enforced
at the database level,
regardless of how you come in,
what application you come in from.
name from employees,
I'm allowed to see all the rows.
But as soon as I select last
name comma salary from employees,
I only get to see the
rows I'm allowed to see.
So it fires based on the
column I'm selecting.
There's an option called
Advanced Security Option that
helps you encrypt your data both
when it's in transit on a network
and in the database itself.
And then finally we have
auditing technology allowing
you to capture who's looking,
at what time, at what data,
what exactly they saw,
and what updates they made.
Very important these days when
there are new regulations such as
Sarbanes-Oxley and HIPAA requiring
you to do a lot of auditing.
As I mentioned before,
we've made it much easier for
you to manage all this with
running on Apple hardware,
having lots of automatic
features such as things that
automatically tune your memory,
automatic storage management,
I talked about that,
and also automatic backup and recovery,
and diagnostic tools that come
up in a web-based console,
allowing you to see,
getting warnings for things that
are going on in your database.
So all in all,
database 10g running on Apple XServe,
really affordable,
cost effective platform to
run your enterprise data.
Now I'd like to ask Paul to come on
stage and tell us about the details.
Thank you, Sergio.
My name is Paul Lambert.
I am the Mac OS X architect
for Apple's IS&T.
Some of you may have seen
me speak earlier this week.
I'm going to talk about configuring
the database itself--I'm sorry,
configuring the operating system
and the systems that you're going
to be putting your database on.
I'm going to discuss a couple of topics.
First we're going to talk about choosing
where your data should be stored.
And when you do that,
you have a number of questions
you have to keep in mind,
but it's also the most important
question you have to answer.
And the thing that you are doing with
a database is dealing with your data,
and if that data is the
most important thing,
start with it.
The second thing we're going to talk
about are various configurations
you can use for your various
editions of Oracle Database 10g.
And we'll talk about some
recommended configurations and
all of the various options that
you have within those ranges.
Then we'll talk about actually
configuring the hardware that
you are using for your database.
and configuring the software
whenever you install it.
And finally, we'll talk about automating
your deployment very briefly.
This is probably the most important
phase if your management actually
gives you time to do any planning.
And the reason why it's important
is because it gives you a
lot of reproducibility later,
and that's always very helpful at
3:30 in the morning on a Saturday.
So to begin with,
let's talk about choosing
where to store your data.
Apple provides a number
of storage options.
The first and the most famous, of course,
is XServe RAID.
And XServe RAID is a
fantastic storage option.
If you're using XServe RAID,
it gives you enhanced reliability,
enhanced availability,
enhanced performance,
and also enhanced size.
If you're using the
Apple internal PCI RAID card,
which is a feature that some
people aren't so familiar with,
but on XServe G5s this is
a build-to-order option.
And if you use this,
it can improve the reliability of
the internal disk for many cases,
and so sometimes this
is a very good option.
We also provide software mirroring
within the operating system,
which can be used to improve
reliability in the event of a
hardware or component failure.
And in many cases you may wish to use,
or you may need to use, a SAN switch.
When you're choosing
where to store your data,
you do have to consider
the three major questions,
which are: How much data do you have?
If you have 5 terabytes of data,
you won't be storing
that on internal disks.
You need to know how are you
going to be using that data.
If it's extremely
important that it be quick,
then you need to make sure
you use quick storage.
If that's not important,
of course you can rule that out.
And you also need to know how
reliable your data needs to be.
If the database is used during the day
by a small sales team and if it goes out,
you know, they get annoyed but it
doesn't slow the business down,
that's one thing.
If the database is driving
your online website and all
of your income comes from it,
then reliability is going
to be a much larger concern.
So let's talk about the
additions of Oracle.
Oracle Database 10g is
standard edition one.
In a typical configuration,
you'll use an XServe G5,
which provides you with ECC RAM and
some other really nice features,
and it also is really small.
You might use the internal disks
or you might attach an XSERV RAID,
depending on your storage
and performance needs.
For Oracle Database 10g Standard Edition,
you might use, for example,
two XServe G5s,
each with an attached XServe RAID,
or use the internal disks with
the Apple Hardware RAID PCI card.
That gives you a little more
flexibility in your deployment,
and it also gives you a
little more room for growth.
If you're using the enterprise
edition of Oracle Database 10g,
you might want to use multiple
XServe G5s with the Apple Hardware
RAID PCI card installed to give you
that reliability for your root volume
and also if you use the internal disks
for backup space or some other purpose.
And then attach XServe RAIDs to them
for the storage and take advantage of
the reliability and the performance.
You may wish to use a SAN switch or
a SAN fabric in that case as well,
although it's entirely not necessary,
and it depends on your
storage requirements and your
flexibility requirements.
The advantage of using a SAN switch
is that you can then address more
than one XSERV RAID from each XSERV.
The disadvantage is it is an
additional bit of complexity.
So if you don't need
the additional space,
it's probably not necessary.
And finally,
if you're going to use Oracle's
real application clusters
with Oracle Database 10g,
which is a fantastic technology
to allow you to scale,
you'll want to use multiple XServe G5s.
I recommend purchasing a lot of them.
You'll need a SAN switch and
then multiple XSERV RAIDs.
And this allows you to actually
share the storage on the
XSERV RAIDs between the XSERV G5s.
And they'll all address that storage.
And then each of those XSERV G5s
will act as a database server and
will provide access to that data.
If you start to see
that you need more CPU,
you buy an XSERV G5.
If you run low on space,
you buy an XSERV RAID.
And it allows you to scale
those two parts separately.
And so it gives you extra convenience
and flexibility in your management.
If this is where you're keeping
the list of restaurants people
like to go to for lunch,
it's probably too big.
But if this is for your
enterprise-level databases,
it's fantastic.
So let's talk about the
configuration of the hardware.
The Apple Hardware RAID PCI card is not
so familiar to many Apple customers,
and so I wanted to spend
a moment talking about it.
It is an internal card that
provides hardware RAID for the
internal disks on the XSERV G5.
Because it is hardware RAID,
it doesn't use any CPU power to do that.
The simple and obvious
configuration to use it in is to
do RAID 5 among all three disks.
And this allows you to survive
if you have a disk failure.
It also allows you to have
the performance of RAID 5.
However,
If you do that and you have a
single file system on there,
it can complicate your backups
a little bit and so forth.
So the recommended
configuration is to use RAID 5,
but to do multiple logical volumes.
When you do the multiple logical volumes,
you can have a small volume
for your root volume and then
a larger area for your data.
And then you can backup the OS and file
system in the database installation
separately from the actual data,
and so your backup
administrators will be happier.
If you're using Oracle's
clustering or failover
configurations and those products,
you may actually consider not using that
and in fact going to a single root disk.
For example,
with an Oracle RAC installation,
you might want to use cluster
servers with a single disk.
And that allows you to hopefully
be able to deploy a new one quickly
in the event of a failure and
survive a failure by redundancy.
If you're going to be using XServe RAID,
the simple and obvious configuration
is to do RAID 5 across all seven
disks on each controller and
publish that as a single one.
However, a more recommended configuration
in order to survive more types of
failures would be to use RAID 5
across six disks and do one hot spare,
so that you don't have to be
there to replace the disk,
it will automatically
replace a failed one.
And then you can use
the software mirroring,
the Apple RAID software mirroring
in Disk Utility to mirror
between the two controllers.
And then if a controller fails,
you're able to continue using the
data on the other side until you're
able to replace that controller.
If you're using Oracle's
automatic storage management,
you may want to go back to a
very simple configuration using
RAID 5 across seven disks,
and then use Oracle for the mirroring.
The advantage of that situation
is it allows Oracle to
manage the mirroring part,
so you can get a little bit more
performance because Oracle knows
exactly which data it needs to
mirror and which it can live without.
If you decide to go with a SAN switch
or your environment requires it,
it's important to pay attention to
the configuration of that switch.
The simple configuration,
which is to power it on
and plug everything in,
actually does work very nicely,
and especially if
you're using Oracle RAC,
that can be fine.
But I would recommend that you actually
zone each LUN from your storage,
from your XSERV RAIDs,
to the controllers that need to see it.
And the advantage of this is when
somebody comes in to do some work
who's not very familiar with the
configuration or the situation,
they won't, for example,
format drives that are really
on other machines and in use,
and so they don't realize that and
they wipe out data or whatever.
It's easy to make mistakes like that,
and the easiest way to avoid
them is to do that zoning.
So now it's time to
install your software.
And of course the first thing you
need to install is Mac OS X Server.
When you're installing
Mac OS X Server for Oracle Database 10g,
it's important to keep in mind that
right now the only certified revision
with Oracle Database 10g is 10.3.6.
So when you install
Mac OS X Server 10.3.6,
in the Oracle installation instructions,
there are instructions on
getting the Oracle kernel update.
And you can download that and install it.
It's a very simple install.
What's not mentioned in the instructions,
but which I recommend,
is also getting the Ethernet
driver update from Apple.
And the Ethernet driver update
applies to 10.3.3 through 10.3.7.
And it fixes a minor problem with
the Broadcom Ethernet driver.
And it'll save you a little bit
of trouble later on if you have
a very busy network and you start
running into strange issues.
It's just easier to start with it.
Finally, we'll talk about the file
systems on the software side.
When you are installing
Oracle Database 10g,
and you go to put your data on your
XSERV RAIDs or your internal disk,
you'll probably use HFS+.
The advantage of HFS+ is it's simple,
it's the default,
and the performance is fantastic.
It's exactly what you should be using.
And of course,
you might do the software mirroring
in order to ensure reliability
across multiple RAID controllers.
If you're using Oracle RAC, however,
or Oracle's automatic storage manager,
you'll want to use raw devices.
And raw devices give direct
access to the physical device,
and typically on other platforms,
raw devices are literally raw
and are not a file system.
On Mac OS X,
they're treated as a file system,
and this can be a little bit
of a source of confusion.
So I wanted to cover it very quickly.
Whenever you make a
raw device for Oracle,
if you give it /dev/disk 3s2 or whatever,
the next time the machine boots,
that disk may be renamed.
Because on Mac OS X,
the disks are named in the
order that they're seen.
In order to prevent that and
simplify that configuration,
the disk label command
and the raw partition file
system were put into 10.3.6.
You can use the user--
SBin pdisk command to actually put
a partition label on the device.
And you create a single
partition of type Apple label.
And then you use the disk label
command to tell that partition
that it is a raw device,
and what its name should
be in slashed dev.
You also set the permissions for it and
all of those other pieces of information.
And this is all described
in the disk label man page.
But I wanted to point it out in
case it was a source of confusion
when you're first starting.
Other useful piece of information
is if you are doing Oracle RAC,
when you do this from one
XServe G5 to one XServe RAID,
the other XServe G5s may not
see the changes immediately.
And on those hosts,
you can use pdisk with the -dump
option against that device,
and it will re-read the header
information and it will see
that there's that raw device
there and it will show up.
Once you have the server installed,
you'll want to do some tuning,
and Oracle's instructions have specific
tuning options that they recommend.
They also recommend putting
it into XERC directly,
and that can be a
maintainability issue sometimes,
especially if you have
software that's checking for
changes to files and so forth.
One option and one way to separate that
from the Apple-supplied code in XERC is
to only change XERC enough to read,
for example, an XERC.local tuning file,
or an XERC.local file.
If you look in Mac OS X 10.3.9
or Mac OS X Server 10.3.9,
the XERC file there
actually does read these.
So that's a good place to look
for inspiration on how to change
10.3.6's file to do the same.
And you'll put some of your settings
into the @CRC.local tuning file
and some into the sysctl.conf file.
And we'll talk briefly about what
the different types of settings are
and why they go in different places.
The two types of settings
are the sysctl settings,
which go into sysctl.conf.
And those settings are kernel-wide
parameters that take effect immediately
when they're set by the sysctl command.
So you can use the sysctl
command to set them on the fly.
They're also read from
sysctl.conf at boot,
so that's where you put them to make
sure that they remain after each reboot.
Even though they do
take effect immediately,
it's important to pay attention
to what that effect is,
because in many cases,
all they do is change
the maximum of a maximum,
or they change something that is only
looked at by processes when they start,
and so running processes
may not be affected.
The sysctl man page in section 2 of
the man pages has information about
many of the options that are there.
Many of the Oracle provided
options are involving System 5
shared memory paradigms,
and that's very similar to
other operating systems.
The per-process resource limits
are set by the ulimit command.
And the ulimit command is an interesting
difference from the kernel parameters,
and that is that it is per-process.
So there's no way to change those
values for a running process.
If you want to change them
across the whole system,
you do need to change them
through the @crc.local tuning
file and then reboot the system.
They're inherited by every
process from its parent,
and only root can change them above the
soft limits that are set by the parent.
They can't be set for Mac init,
which is the primary process
running on the system.
It has process ID 2.
MakaNet kicks off XERC,
so every child of XERC,
if you do put the tuning in there,
will have those new resource limits.
But MakaNet also kicks
off the Windows Server,
and the Windows Server is
what provides the GUI login.
And so, for example,
there is a max-prox-per-uid
resource limit,
and that resource limit
is at 100 by default.
If you have an Oracle account
on the system and you're
using Oracle in that account,
and you've raised that
in XERC.localTuning to,
say, 2000, for example, and you have 150
Oracle processes running,
if you go to the GUI and you
log in on the console as Oracle,
it will fail, because the limit there
is still set to 100,
and that also applies if
you use ARD to connect in.
So in that case, you'll want to SSH in,
or log in as another user, SU to root,
change your U limit,
and then become Oracle.
So once you've done all of these
steps and you have Oracle installed,
you want to automate the
deployment of your configuration.
And the reason you want to do this is so
that it can be reproduced very easily.
The Apple hardware
RAID PCI card configuration
can be scripted very easily.
The Apple RAID software
mirroring can also be scripted
using the diskutil command.
Your Mac OS X Server 1036 configuration,
if you use a deployment
image to deploy your systems,
you can make a specific image
for Oracle database 10g systems.
If you don't do that,
you may want to start,
or you may take an existing image
and write a script that modifies it
to meet these specific requirements.
For example, by installing the new XERC,
XERC tuning local, and so forth.
You also may want to write a simple
script to do the raw devices,
because that provides
you with repeatability,
and you can tell someone to do
it over the phone without having
to give them a whole bunch of
stuff that's hard to remember.
So those are the things that I wanted
to cover and make sure that were clear.
Obviously,
you do need to make sure you know
where your data is being stored
and how you're going to use it.
And then configuring your hardware
for availability and configuring your
software for supportability are the
next most important steps to allow
you to sleep all through the weekend.
And now I'm going to give it
back to Sergio to show one of my
favorite Oracle 10g applications.
Thanks, Paul.
Okay,
I wanted to switch gears a little bit
and talk about application development.
Oracle HTMLDB is a free feature of
the 10g database that allows you to
quickly develop web-based applications.
Oracle HTMLDB is a free feature of
the 10g database that allows you to
quickly develop web-based applications.
What's interesting about HTMLDB is
that it's entirely browser-based.
That is, you develop from a browser,
you don't need to install any
client software to do development,
and you deploy to a browser.
So your end users are using a web browser
to see their applications and their data.
The other interesting thing
is that it's entirely hosted,
meaning multiple
Projects or individuals can work
in the same database in what's
called their own workspace,
where they have their own
database schema and they're not
stepping on each other's toes.
So we actually have, back in Reston,
where I work, Reston, Virginia,
we have a server on the internet.
It's called htmlb.oracle.com.
And when you go there,
you can sign up for a free
workspace and do exactly what
I'm going to show you now.
And as of yesterday,
we had something like 9,000
workspaces there all running.
Okay, so HTMLDB, web development tool
for the Oracle database.
So you can do a lot of things with it,
but I wanted to talk about it in
terms of a specific scenario that
I'm sure you're all familiar with.
So picture this,
you are tasked with getting organized,
collecting data,
sharing it on say the projects that
you're working on in your department.
So what do you do?
You spark up a spreadsheet, right?
You type in some data about projects,
people that are assigned those projects,
when the tasks are due and so forth.
And then you send it
to all your coworkers,
and they add yet more data to it, right?
And they send it back to you.
Now you have 10 spreadsheets, right?
And you need to merge them all
and scrub them and dedupe them.
This is probably something
that you've done before.
Spreadsheets are a wonderful
communication tool.
If you have data in it,
it's great to show reports and
charts and things like that.
They are a lousy tool for sharing data
and doing updates at the same time.
It's not a good concurrent database.
So what are you left with?
You're left with a mess
of data fragmentation.
You have data that's not secure.
It's floating around on desktops,
on USB drives and so forth.
It's not accessible when
you need to get to it.
Whenever you need to get the latest data,
someone else always has it.
That's just the way it works.
And you're really inefficiently
using your resources to
So what we're doing with HTMLDB,
what we're helping you do is
taking some of those spreadsheets,
the data out of them,
and desktop databases,
take the data out of it,
move it into a database,
Oracle Database 10g,
Where it's secure,
where everybody can access
it at the same time,
right?
Where it's backed up,
where it's managed by professionals,
where you can audit who's
actually looking at the data.
And using HTMLDB,
building user interfaces,
web-based applications,
so that people can access
it from any web browser.
Can we go to demo two, please?
So here I am.
Actually what I did is on
Wednesday I installed the
Oracle Database 10g and HTMLDB on
10.3.6 of OS X Server and
we have that running right here.
And so here I am in my web browser.
I'm logged into my workspace.
I called it Apple.
And over here I have one
of these spreadsheets.
Now what I'm doing here is I'm
tracking data about hardware assets
that we have in our organization.
So we have information about
what kind of machines we have,
what kind of CPUs, how much they cost,
when we bought them and so forth.
It's a pretty old spreadsheet.
So what I want to do is
get rid of this thing,
right?
I want to be able to have everyone
in my organization to look
at the data at the same time,
always be looking at the up-to-date data,
and be able to make updates.
So what I'm going to do is I'm
going to create a new application.
And I'm going to say I want to do
that based on spreadsheet data.
And what I just did is
I highlighted the entire data set.
[Transcript missing]
The table that this is going to create,
this is going to create a database table,
right?
I'm going to give that a name.
[Transcript missing]
Things such as how much
money do we spend on them?
And then finally, I'm going to give this
application a name.
The hardware asset tracker and
this is really all we need.
Ah, okay, we need to use a,
some kind of look and feel or
a theme for this application.
So what we do in HTMLDB is we provide out
of the box a couple of themes and they're
really just sets of HTML templates
stored in the database and you can,
you can modify them and
create new ones if you want.
There we go.
Looks like it's set to go.
So,
without really any programming so far,
I've been able to tell this wizard,
you know, create me a data entry
and reporting application.
So, let's see what we have.
The application is already secured.
Right now it's using a HTMLDB specific
authentication mechanism,
but you can also use single sign-on or
LDAP based authentication if you want.
So here we are.
We're running the application.
Let's just see what we can do.
First, we can filter the data set.
So here you're looking at the data coming
out of a table in an Oracle database
that was previously in a spreadsheet.
We can toss away the spreadsheet.
This is now the single point of truth,
right?
This is where people go,
point their web browser,
and they're operating on
the data in the spreadsheet.
I can also sort by different columns,
right?
Did I mention that
Apple X Servers are performant?
That's pretty quick, right?
Now, of course,
we can also add new records
to this database very quickly,
so it generated that form for us.
Let's look real quickly at
the kind of analysis reports.
It's created some analysis reports.
So here's by CPU type, you know,
how much money did we spend on them,
average and summarized.
And then we also have some charts,
you know.
How does our asset database
break down by CPU type?
Great.
So, this is an application
generated real quickly,
right?
It didn't really do any programming.
That's really the idea behind
HTML to be declarative,
real quick,
reporting and data entry applications.
But often that means,
if something is quick,
that often means whatever
it produces is rigid.
You can't touch it, you can't change it,
you can't change the behavior
or the look and feel of it.
So, I'm going to dispel that myth here.
What I'm going to do is,
let's look at--well,
let's first see if this form works.
So, here's an update form and I can
make updates to the database,
right?
And the nice thing is with
HTMLDB we automatically have
built-in lost update detection,
allowing concurrent updates without
really losing any data or any changes.
But let's say,
There's a business rule that I want
to impose on this application.
That is,
I don't want anyone to be able to
"Apply or insert a null
value in the CPU speed field.
So right now it's clear that
that rule is not enforced,
right?
You see over here that the value is null.
And so let's bring that up.
What I want to do is create a
data validation on this form,
making sure that whenever someone
does an update in this form,
that field is checked.
Notice here at the bottom,
I have what's called a developer toolbar.
This is what allows me to,
because I'm the developer,
I'm logged into my workspace
as a developer and I'm
running this application,
this is what allows me to change the
behavior and the functionality of this
application really while it's running.
So what I'm going to do is,
I'm going to create
something new on this page,
and that something new is a control,
and in this case I want the validation,
right?
So now I'm in the
development environment.
Incidentally,
HTMLDB itself was developed in HTMLDB.
I'm going to let that sink
in for a little while.
So we built, using HTMLDB,
a collection of applications,
one of which you're looking at now,
the application builder,
together making up 900 pages or so.
So it's a serious tool, right?
You can do real things with it.
Because HTMLDB really is
a database application.
All it does is collect data from you,
puts it in our metadata store about
the application that you're building.
And we thought the fastest way to
do that was to use HTMLDB itself.
Now, the only thing is that it sometimes
causes headaches when you're
editing a page with itself,
right?
Does that make sense?
Which you have to do sometimes.
Anyway,
so I'm creating a validation and sorry.
I'm creating a validation that's going
to check to make sure that the item,
the field, is not null.
[Transcript missing]
So let's try to make an update.
Ooh, error occurred,
and you see value must be specified,
right, at the field level.
So I changed the functionality
of the application even though
it was generated from a wizard.
Now there's one more thing I want to do.
I want to show you that I can change
the look and feel of this application
simply by switching its theme.
So I'm going to add a new theme to
my application here and then say I'd
like to switch to that theme please.
And really all it's doing,
it's taking all the
templates and switching them,
because it's all data driven.
And so here we are in
the application again,
right,
now with a completely different look.
Go back to the slides, please.
Okay, so we've seen...
That the database running on
Apple X Server is really affordable.
[Transcript missing]
So in summary,
I hope what you were able to take away
from today's presentation was that we've
got some great working products together.
I think hopefully you've seen
this week that Apple's definitely
focused on the enterprise.
We're really excited about
what we're doing here.
Hopefully you've all had a chance to
walk around the data center and check
out some of our solutions down there.
We've got a lot of successes right now
going on in this area for our company
and with our enterprise partners.
And we're really hoping that some
of the things you've taken away from
this week is that we're definitely
a player out there and would love
to work in your organizations.
I guess a couple things I would
like to mention again is the
10g Rack session following this.
It's going to be in level 2 in Alcove 3.
Again,
it's across from your enterprise IT lab.
Another thing we'd like to do is
get your feedback on what you saw
this week from an enterprise level.
We actually have an
enterprise feedback session.
It's at 3:30 in which room, Chris?
Yes?
Please come and give us your feedback.
If you haven't noticed,
if you've been attending
WWDC for the last few years,
we've really tried to emphasize
a lot on what's going on in
the enterprise with Apple.
We do that with your feedback.
I think hopefully you've seen
a continuing growth in the
sessions and in the availability
of our engineering groups and the
products that are coming to market.
If you're out there developing
markets for the enterprise,
I didn't introduce myself earlier,
but my name is Matt Sturgis and
I have a team of folks that manage
our enterprise relationships,
the IT partners.
For instance, the Oracles and SAPs,
when they're bringing
applications to market,
they work directly with our team.
One of the things that we like to
do is work more closely with you
as partners to help you guys be
successful in the market when you
do bring your solutions to market.
For the customers as well,
one of the things that we're
looking for are success stories.
Especially on Oracle right now.
If you're out there in your shops and you
guys are developing or deploying Oracle,
please come find me after this session.
I'd love to talk to you about what
you're doing and see if there's
potential to make you guys famous
within the Apple Oracle community.